
咀嚼 ( Mastication ): Mastication is defined as the process of chewing food for swallowing and digestion.

中枢模式发生器 (Central pattern generator): Central pattern generators (CPGs) are neural networks that can endogenously ( i.e. without rhythmic sensory or central input ) produce rhythmic patterned outputs; these networks underlie the production of most rhythmic motor patterns.

咀嚼型 (Chewing pattern): Chewing pattern is defined as the movement pattern of the mandible during a chewing cycle. It is a complex movement involving simultaneous hinge, sliding and rotary motion. It is unique to each individual and changed by extraction of teeth or restorations that alter the occlusion. Typical adult chewing pattern as represented in the frontal plane is a teardrop shape with the opening phase medial to a more lateral closing phase.

咀嚼周期 (Chewing cycle): A three dimensional representation of mandibular movement produced during the chewing of food.

咀嚼效率 [ Masticatory efficiency ( Masticatory efficacy )]: Masticatory efficiency is defined as the ability to triturate a certain portion of food within a determined period of time and can be quantified as the individual ability to fragment natural or artificial foods.

肌电图学(Electromyography):Electromyography(EMG)is a technique for evaluating and recording the electrical activity produced by skeletal muscles. EMG is performed using an instrument called electromyograph, to produce a record called electromyogram. An electromyograph detects the electrical potential generated by muscle cells when these cells are electrically or neurologically activated. The signals can be analyzed to detect medical abnormalities, activation level, recruitment order or to analyze the biomechanics of human or animal movement.

𬌗力 ( Biting force ) : Biting Force is defined as the result of muscular force applied on opposing teeth; the force created by the dynamic action of the muscles during the physiologic act of mastication; the result of muscular activity applied to opposing teeth.

牙周潜力(Periodontal potential):Periodontal potential is also known as periodontal reserve force, which points that in normal chewing movement chewing teeth together for about half the power of the periodontal tissue can support, and it is stored in the periodontal tissue with partner support ability, namely the periodontal potential.

磨耗 ( Attrition ) : Attrition is the loss of teeth structure by mechanical forces from opposing teeth. Attrition initially affects the enamel and, if unchecked, may proceed to the underlying dentin. Once past the enamel, attrition quickly destroys the softer dentin. Erosion is a very important contributing factor to the loss of tooth substance by attrition.

磨损 ( Abrasion ): Abrasion is the loss of tooth structure by mechanical forces from a foreign element. If this force begins at the cementoenamel junction, then progression of tooth loss can be rapid since enamel is very thin in this region of the tooth. Once past the enamel, abrasion quickly destroys the softer dentin and cementum structures.

