
Nowadays, the influence of digital technology is almost everywhere. In the field of dentistry, the emergence and development of digital technology is leading an "industrial revolution". Digital technology has not only changed the conventional workflow of dental diagnosis and treatment, but also innovated the conventional diagnosis and treatment concepts and models. The close combination of digital and dental technology has become one of the important trends in the field of dentistry in the future.

In the field of dental implantology, the application of digital technology not only makes the diagnosis and treatment process of dental implant restoration more precise, efficient, comfortable and predictable, but also promotes the concept of dental implant therapy to more minimally invasive, precise, efficient and personalized. The clinical application of digital technology in dental implantology has become more extensive. Moreover, digital technology has also become an indispensable professional skill and clinical diagnosis and treatment method for specialist clinicians in implantology.

The clinical application scenario of digital technology in dental implantology is also expanding, from single-tooth implant restoration to partial edentulous and edentulous rehabilitation; the proportion of digital diagnosis and treatment procedures replacing conventional diagnosis and treatment procedures is also gradually increasing, from partial digital to full digital workflow. The connotation of the digital technology in dental implantology is constantly enriched, including relatively more mature CAD/CAM technology, a variety of digital 3D imaging and information acquisition technology (model scanning, intraoral scanning, facial scanning, Cone-beam CT, virtual articulator, etc.), it also covers a variety of fast-developing digital technologies such as real-time navigation technology, robotics technology, and virtual/augmented reality technology. Although in some more complex implant restoration treatments, the full digital workflow still needs further technological breakthroughs and clinical explorations, the close integration of digital technology and implant treatment has become one of the important trends in the future development of dental implantology.

