
Oral mucosa consists of the epithelium and lamina propria lining all the surfaces of the oral cavity. The epithelium can be divided into 4 layers: basal layer, prickle cell layer, granular layer and keratinized layer. Different layers of the oral epithelium represent a progressive maturation process. Cells from the most superficial layer are continuously being shed and replaced from below. Oral mucosa may be classified into 3 types: masticatory, lining and specialized mucosa. The masticatory mucosa is a keratinized epithelium found on the gingival and covering hard palate. The specialized mucosa covers the dorsal surface of the tongue. The lining mucosa covers the remainder of the oral cavity and is a nonkeratinized epithelium.

The epithelium comprising keratinocyte express different cytokeratin. The masticatory epithelum expresses cytokeratin5,14,1,10and6,16; cytokeratin5,14,19and4,13are expressed in the lining epithelium. As many as ${10}\%$ of the cells in the oral epithelium are non-keratinocyte. They are melanocyte, Merkel cells and Langerhans cells, each of them has their own functions.

The lamina propria varies extensively in the different areas of the mouth and may be tightly bound to underling bone or freely movable as in the lips, vestibule, and cheeks. A complex arrangement, basement membrane or basal lamina, links epithelial and connective tissue components of the oral mucosa. Ultrastructurally, the basal lamina is found to consist of lamina lucida and lamina densa. The basal lamina consists mainly of laminin and type IV collagen. The cell side of basal lamina consists of hemidesmosome.

Gingival is attached to the necks of the teeth by means of an epithelial attachment. The epithelium attached to the teeth surfaces by basal lamina and hemidesmosome is called junctional epithelium. These attachment sites are mobile, which allows the attachment to be maintained as the epithelial cells migrate incisally into the sulcus. The col is a valley between two interdental papillae. Its epithelium is thin and usually inflamed. There are 10 groups of collagen fiber bundles in the lamina propria of gingival.

The oral mucosa is richly innervated with sensory nerve endings and receptors that provide a significant role in the perception of pain, temperature, and touch. Mechanoreceptors for touch and pressure include Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's corpuscles, and simple coiled corpuscles. Free nerve endings are characterized as thermoreceptors and nociceptors.

Taste buds are located in fungiform, foliate, and circumvallate papillae and function in tasting sweet, salt, sour, and bitter tastes. Taste buds are goblet-shaped clusters of four types of cells. Type 1 (dark) cells represent the majority of the taste cells. Type 3 cells represent about $7\%$ of the taste cells and exhibit chemical synapses with the nerve endings. Nerves are important to the maintenance of the taste cells.

