
The clinical features of various disorders of the oral mucosa have their histological backgrounds. In some cases, biopsy is mandatory, particularly in the bullous diseases, as the diagnosis can only be confirmed by microscopy. In other cases, microscopic findings can be less definite, but often (as in the case of major aphthae for example) serve to exclude more dangerous diseases.

The appearance of mucosal white lesions is due to hyperkeratosis, acanthosis, intracellular epithelial edema, and/or decreased submucosal vascularity. Superficial white conditions such as debris or candidosis can be wiped away with a dry gauze. Inflammatory conditions frequently result in increased redness (erythema) secondary to thinning of the mucosa and/or increased underlying vascularity.

Unusual or abnormal coloration of the oral mucosa can arise from a variety of sources. Extrinsic pigmentation occurs following exposure to foreign agents such as amalgam. Intrinsic pigmentation is most often secondary to an increased presence of melanin, which is produced by melanocytes in the basal layer of the epithelium.

Several mucocutaneous diseases can present with mouth blisters and then erosions or ulcers. Pemphigus is one of the most serious of these diseases since it is potentially lethal, and pemphigoid is of intermediate severity since it can cause blindness and laryngeal scarring. Pemphigus involves damage to desmosomes (causing intra-epithelial blistering); pemphigoid affects hemi-desmosomes (causing sub-epithelial blistering). Vesicles and then ulcers may also be seen in viral infections, especially in herpes simplex stomatitis and herpes zoster.

An ulcer is defined simply as loss of epithelium. Ulcerative lesions are commonly encountered in dental patients. Although many oral ulcers have similar clinical appearances, their etiologies encompass many disorders, including reactive, infectious, immunologic, and neoplastic diseases. Features that may aid diagnosis are ulcer numbers, shape, size, site, base, associated erythema, margin, and pain. A single ulcer, especially if persisting for three or more weeks is usually indicative of a chronic problem such as malignant disease or serious infection (e.g. tuberculosis or a fungal infection).

