
With the development of biomaterials, dental implant surgery, prosthodontics, and periodontology, today's implant denture is undergoing a revolution. New technology and new implant system appear unceasingly, which makes the indications of implant restoration greatly expanded and promotes development of esthetic dentistry. Implant dentistry reach an unprecedented peak after development of half a century. Implant restoration, as one choice of prosthodontics, not only necessarily reserves the fundamental principles of conventional restoration such as correct reconstruction of shape and function of teeth, favorable retention, support and stability and health benefits of soft and hard tissue of oral cavity, but also has specific requirements in esthetics, especially esthetics of soft tissue, and occlusion design.

Esthetic implant restoration increasingly attracts full attention with the development of implant dentistry, which represents a challenge to reproduce normal-appearing restoration with normal-appearing soft tissue bulk and form. For the patient, the "normal" appearance of the restoration means that the restored tooth looks like a nature tooth. An ideal implant site with complete preservation of bone and the overlying soft tissue is infrequently seen. Most esthetic-requiring implant sites have deficiencies in the ideal bone and overlying soft tissue and must be enhanced with a variety of surgical techniques. Three critical factors that must be considered for esthetic implant restoration are as follows.

1.Assessment of soft tissue. Assessment includes the quality and biotype of the gingival and the presence or absence of papilla. Papilla index and the pink esthetic score can provide reference for clinicians.

2.Deficiencies in soft tissue. Deficiencies in soft tissue mainly reflect in three aspects, namely, gingival recession, the absence or insufficient reconstruction of gingival papilla and gingival hyperplasia.

3.Soft and hard tissue manipulation. Esthetic triangle can be as the guide for clinicians. Soft and hard tissue manipulation can be achieved through surgical technique, orthodontics and prosthodontics method.

Occlusion reconstruction has a major effect on success of implant restoration. Due to lack of the periodontal ligament, osseointegrated implants, unlike natural teeth, react biomechanically in a different fashion to occlusal force. It is therefore believed that dental implants may be more prone to occlusal overloading. How to avoid occlusal trauma to implant is always the focus of concern. Thus scholars define the implant-specific concept of occlusion as implant protective occlusion or IPO. Elements of IPO include progressive loading, protection of antagonist, bone quality of implant site, the shapes and dimensions of implant and protection of the weak link in implant restoration.

