
Balkwill 角 ( Balkwill angle ) : The Balkwill angle is the angle formed by the imaginary plane of the Bonwill triangle and the imaginary plane ( the occlusal plane ) described by the incisors and the distobuccal cusps of the mandibular second molars, with a mean value of ${26}^{ \circ  }$ .

Bonwill 的等边三角形 (Bonwill equilateral triangle): A 4-inch equilateral triangle bounded by lines connecting the contact points of the mandibular central incisor's incisal edge to each condyle ( usually its midpoint ) and from one condyle to the other. It is the basis for Bonwill's theory of occlusion.

鼻翼耳屏线 (Comper's line, ala-tragus line): A line running from the inferior border of the ala of the nose to some defined point on the tragus of the ear, usually considered to be the tip of the tragus. It is frequently used, with a third point on the opposing tragus, for the purpose of establishing the ala tragus plane. Ideally, the ala-tragus plane is considered to be parallel to the occlusal plane. The occlusal plane is at an angle of approximately 15 degrees relative to the Frankfort horizontal plane, when viewed in the midsagittal plane.

Wilson 曲线 ( Curve of Wilson ) : In the theory that occlusion should be spherical, the curvature of the cusps as projected on the frontal plane expressed in both arches; the curve in the lower arch being concave and the one in the upper arch being convex. The curvature in the lower arch is affected by an equal lingual inclination of the right and left molars so that the tip points of the corresponding cross-aligned cusps can be placed into the circumferences of a circle. The transverse cuspal curvature of the upper teeth is affected by the equal buccal inclinations of their long axes.

眶耳平面 (Frankfort plane): 1: for a plane established by the lowest point in the margin of the right or left bony orbit and the highest point in the margin of the right or left bony auditory meatus. 2: a horizontal plane represented in profile by a line between the lowest point on the margin of the orbit to the highest point on the margin of the auditory meatus; called also auriculo-orbital plane, eye-ear plane, Frankfort horizontal (FH), Frankfort horizontal line.

牙弓长度 (Length of dentition): The length of a line segment within the median plane perpendicular to and extending from the line connecting the first premolars to the most labial point on the anterior arch, usually to the point between the maxillary central incisors.

中性区 ( Neutral zone ) : The potential space between the lips and cheeks on one side and the tongue on the other; that area or position where the forces between the tongue and cheeks or lips are equal.

𬌗平面 (Occlusal plane, Plane of occlusion): 1: the average plane established by the incisal and occlusal surfaces of the teeth. Generally, it is not a plane but represents the planar mean of the curvature of these surfaces. 2: the surface of wax occlusion rims contoured to guide in the arrangement of denture teeth 3: a flat metallic plate used in arranging denture teeth.

纵𬌗曲线 (Sagittal curve of occlusion): The sagittal curve of occlusion in the upper arch can be divided into two parts. The anterior part begins with maxillary incisal ridge and following the cusp tips of the maxillary canine and the premolar teeth, ending with the mesiobuccal cusps of the maxillary first molars. The posterior part is compensating curve, which is the anteroposterior curvature ( in the median plane ) and the mediolateral curvature ( in the frontal plane ) in the alignment of the occluding surfaces and incisal edges of artificial teeth that are used to develop balanced occlusion. The sagittal curve of occlusion in the lower arch is also called curve of Spee.

牙列形状 (Shape of dentition): The shape of the dentition vary between individuals. The maxillary arch generally takes the form of a half ellipse, whereas the mandibular arch resembles a parabola. Ideally, the teeth of each arch are symmetrically distributed around the median ( mid-sagittal) plane. In this way the dentition can be divided into four quadrants with eight teeth in each: two incisors, one canine, two premolars, and three molars. 第十六章 𬌗 Occlusion

第一节 𬌗与口颌系统

Occlusion and Stomatognathic System

