
Odontogenic tumors are lesions derived from the tooth-forming tissues (epithelial or mesenchymal elements, or both). They are found exclusively in the mandible and maxilla (and gingiva on rare occasions). They comprise of a complex group of lesions of diverse histopathologic types and clinical behavior. Some of these lesions are true neoplasms and may rarely exhibit malignant behavior. Others may represent tumor-like malformations (hamartomas).

Odontogenic tumors tend to mimic the cell or tissue of origin. Thus, they may histologically resemble soft tissues of the enamel organ or dental pulp, or contain hard tissue elements of enamel, dentin, or cementum. Odontogenic tumors, like normal odontogenesis, demonstrate varying inductive interactions between odontogenic epithelium and odontogenic ectomesenchyme. This ectomesenchyme was thought to be derived from the mesodermal layer of the embryo. It is now accepted that this tissue differentiates from the ectodermal layer in the cephalic portion of the embryo. Tumors of odontogenic epithelium are composed only of odontogenic epithelium without any participation of odontogenic ectomesenchyme. Other odontogenic neoplams, sometimes referred to as mixed odontogenic tumors, are composed of odontogenic epithelium and ectomesenchymal elements. Dental hard tissue may or may not be formed in these lesions. A third group, tumors of odontogenic ectomesenchyme, is composed principally of ectomesenchymal elements. Although odontogenic epithelium may be included within these lesions, it does not appear to play any essential role in their pathogenesis. In addition, based on the biological behavior, odontogenic neoplasms can be divided into benign and malignant categories.

Ameloblastoma is the most common form of odontogenic tumors but only accounts for approximately $1\%$ of all oral tumors. It is a true neoplasm of enamel organ-type tissue which does not undergo differentiation to the point of enamel formation. Ameloblastoma is a benign but locally aggressive tumor which often produces marked facial deformation and recurs after insufficient surgery. Particular emphasis of this chapter is therefore placed on this unique neoplasm. Other odontogenic tumors of clinicopathological significance also include calcifying epithelial odontogenic tumor (also known as Pindborg's tumor), adenomatoid odontogenic tumor, calcifying odontogenic cyst, ameloblastic fibroma, odontogenic fibroma, odontogenic myxoma and odontoma.

