
卡环 (clasp): the part of a removable partial denture that acts as a direct retainer and/or stabilizer for a prosthesis by partially encompassing or contacting an abutment tooth; components of the clasp assembly include the retentive clasp arm, reciprocal clasp arm and occlusal rest.

卡环臂 (clasp arm): component of the clasp that engages a portion of the tooth surface and either enters an undercut for retention or remains entirely above the height of contour to act as a reciprocating element; generally used to stabilize or retain a removable partial denture.

导平面 (guiding planes): two or more vertically parallel surfaces on abutment teeth oriented so as to contribute to the direction of the path of placement and removal of a removable partial denture.

大连接体 (major connector): the part of a removable partial denture that connects the components on one side of the arch to the components on the opposite side of the arch.

基托 (denture base): the part of a denture that rests on the foundation tissues and to which the artificial teeth are attached.

模型 (cast): an accurate reproduction of the dental arch and mouth structures made from an impression; further designated according to the purpose for which it is made, such as diagnostic cast, master cast, or investment cast.

倒凹 (undercut): 1 . the portion of the surface of an object that is below the height of contour in relationship to the path of placement; 2. the contour of a cross-sectional portion of a residual ridge or dental arch that prevents the insertion of a dental prosthesis.

模型观测 (cast surveying): the procedure of locating and delineating the contour and position of the abutment teeth and associated structures before designing a removable partial denture; to analyze and compare the prominence of intraoral contours associated with the fabrication of a dental prosthesis on the cast by a dental surveyor.

固位 (retention): quality inherent in the denture that resists the vertical forces of dislodgment (e.g. the force of gravity, the adhesiveness of food, the forces associated with opening of the jaws).

稳定 (stability): quality of a prosthesis of being firm, stable, or constant and resisting displacement by functional, horizontal, or rotational stresses.

功能性印模 (functional impression): impression and resulting cast of the supporting form of the edentulous ridge; artificially created by means of a specially molded (individualized) impression tray or an impression material, or both, that displaces those tissues that can be readily displaced and that would be incapable of rendering support to the denture base when it is supporting functional load.

