
The removable partial denture (RPD) is a removable prosthesis that replace one or more missing teeth of the partial edentulism when fixed partial denture or implant restoration are not optional choices. It provides functional and aesthetic oral rehabilitation through less invasive clinical procedure and relatively low cost. A removable partial denture gains support and retention from the remaining natural teeth and edentulous residual ridge and it can be readily placed in the mouth and removed out by the wearer.

This chapter provides an overview of removable partial denture, elaborates on the basic concepts, indications, contraindications, characteristics and functions by structure and materials, and introduces classification of partially edentulous arches with corresponding denture design. The Kennedy and Applegate classification system was the most commonly used by most prosthodontist around the world.

The components of a removable partial denture are described in detail, which include retainer, connector, base and artificial teeth. The clasps are main retainers that may come in various designs: cast circumferential clasp (for example Aker's clasp, ring clasp, and back-action clasp etc.), wrought wire clasp and Roach clasp (for example I-bar, T-bar, Y-bar, and U-bar etc.). Both cast circumferential and wrought wire clasps are suprabulge clasps, in that they engage the undercut of the abutment by originating coronal to the height of contour. While Roach clasps are infrabulge clasps and engage undercuts by approaching from the gingival direction. In addition, there are a couple of specific clasp design, the RPI clasp and RPA clasp. The important functions of clasps are retention, support, stabilizing. The connectors are composed of major connector (the metal part which joins the component parts on one side of the arch to those on the opposite side) and minor connector (the small struts and network which join other parts of the RPD to the major connector). There are two kinds of denture base: resin base and metal base. Resin base is attached to the framework by means of open lattice or mesh. The artificial teeth are made of resin or porcelain formed in the shape of teeth to restore the function for chewing, pronunciation and esthetics. The philosophy of denture function (including support, retention and stability) and the principles of denture design according to Kennedy classification were discussed in detail.

Clinical procedures ranging from examination, diagnosis and treatment planning, mouth preparation, impression and casts making, occlusion registration and articulator mounting, the laboratory process, denture insertion and patient instruction, follow-up and denture maintainence after denture delivery, and denture repair were also described in detail.

