
部分牙缺失 (Hypodontia): Congenital absence of one or more, but not all, of the normal complement of teeth.

先天无牙症 (Anodontia): A rare dental condition characterized by congenital absence of all teeth ( both deciduous and permanent ) .

过大牙(Macrodontia):Abnormally large teeth.

过小牙(Microdontia):Abnormally small teeth.

多生牙(Supernumerary teeth):They are the extra teeth that one can have in the mouth. The supernumerary teeth are classified into several groups based on their morphology and location. On the basis of morphology four types emerge as follows, conical, tuberculate, supplemental and odontoma. They are mostly found in the lateral incisor, molar and premolar region.

融合牙 (Fused tooth): Two teeth are united during development by the union of their tooth germs. The teeth may be joined by the enamel of their crowns, by their root dentin, or by both.

粘着牙 (Concrescence tooth): Two teeth join together by the union of their cementum overlying the roots. The cause can sometimes be attributed to trauma or crowding of teeth.

釉质发育不全 (Enamel hypoplasia): It is a general term referring to all quantitative defects of enamel thickness. They range from single or multiple pits to small furrows and wide throughs to entirely missing enamel.

牙本质发育不全 (Dentinogenesis imperfecta): It is an autosomal dominant disorder in which both primary and permanent teeth are affected. The teeth exhibit discoloration ranging in hue from grayish-blue to brown, the pulp chamber being obliterated by abnormal dentine.

氟牙症 (Dental fluorosis): It is a change in the appearance of the tooth's enamel. These changes can vary from barely noticeable white spots in mild forms to staining and pitting in the more severe forms. Dental fluorosis only occurs when younger children consume too much fluoride, from any source, over long periods when teeth are developing under the gums.

四环素着色牙 ( Tetracycline pigmentation tooth ): When antibiotic tetracycline is ingested during certain times of the development of the dentitions, significant discoloration from yellow to brown to bluish violet and from part ( cervical ) to all of the enamel may occur.

先天性梅毒牙 (Tooth abnormality caused by congenital syphilis): Enamel hypoplasia and dentinogenesis imperfect caused by congenital syphilis. The changes usually take place in the permanent maxillary central incisors and first molars. The incisal edges of incisors are notched and narrower than the cervical area. The occlusal surfaces of molars are like mulberries.

桑葚状磨牙(Mulberry molars):Developmental disturbance that occurs as a result of congenital syphilis, in which enamel nodules are present on the occlusal surface of the molars.

牙阻生 (Impacted tooth): Unerupted or partially erupted tooth that is positioned against another tooth, bone, or even soft tissue so that complete eruption becomes unlikely.

