
Mastering the anatomy of jaw is the prerequisite for a successful implant therapy. Following tooth removal, the surrounding alveolar bone resorbs irreversibly, causing an inadequacy of available bone volume for subsequent implant treatment. Moreover, individual implant therapy should be drawn up, since each patient has an unique jaw characteristics.

In the anterior area of jaw, as the aesthetic area, the buccal bone plate is often extremely thin (about ${70}\%$ of the thickness is less than $1\mathrm{\;{mm}}$ ), occasionally absent of cancellous bone, and sometimes accompanied by bony fenestration. In this area, tooth extraction predisposed buccal bone to fracture. Besides, the coronal part of buccal bone plate is often only made of bundle bone. The surgical trauma during extraction may imply separation of the periodontal ligament, thus decreasing physiological stimulation, which in turn will mediate the resorption of the bundle bone.

Before 1977, implant treatment was a contraindication in the maxillary posterior edentulous region, where the pneumatized maxillary sinus exists together with a decreased bone volume and poor bone quality. Sinus augmentation makes implant therapy in this region a predictable treatment. However, patients have different maxillary sinus characteristics and augmentation approaches range from very simple to complex. To determine which approach is best suited for the management of specific deficiencies in the posterior maxilla, an understanding of the varied anatomy of maxilla and the sinus' classification has become more critical.

To minimize the incidence of implant therapy complications, detailed knowledge of the regional anatomy is imperative for the implant surgeon: ( 1 ) the location and course of the inferior alveolar nerve, ( 2 ) the course of mental nerve, ( 3 ) the diameter, location and course of maxillary artery loop, ( 4 ) the submandibular fossa in the posterior area of the mandible.

The bone quality or density of the internal structure of bone exhibits a number of biomechanical properties. Poor bone quality may be associated with implant failure. The mandible is designed as a force absorption unit with dense outer cortical bone and a dense trabecular bone. The maxilla has thin cortical and trabecular bone.

According to the type of bone density, the surface and design of dental implant can be selected. It is also important to evaluate the bone quality to determine the optimal drilling sequence, the healing time, and the implant loading protocol.

