
It is crucial to maintain adequately wide and thick soft tissue around implant to maintain underlying osseous support. Alveolar bone resorption and bone remodeling occur after tooth extraction and during dental implant treatment. Soft tissue resorption is concomitant with bone loss, which results in lost papilla, gingival recession and compromised emergence profile of dental implant restoration. Therefore, the recreation of soft tissue around implant is important to both the health of the peri-implant structures and the esthetics of implant restoration.

It is important for the clinician to consider the differences between peri-implant soft tissue and periodontium when performing surgical procedures involving implants. The soft tissue around an implant, unlike the one around the natural tooth, is not supplied with blood from the periodontal ligament space. Further, connective tissue fiber inside the peri-implant soft tissue runs parallel to the implant but perpendicular to the natural tooth root. Moreover, the biotype of periodontium also significantly affects the treatment result. Predicted papilla height is partially determined by the height of alveolar crest bone.

The goals of peri-implant soft tissue management are determined by the location of the implant and the extent to which esthetics is a concern for the definitive restoration. Most of the surgical techniques are provided in this chapter. The Palacci's papilla regeneration technique is frequently used simultaneously with abutment connection or one-stage implant placement. The sliding flap is common in the posterior region of maxilla. The modified roll technique is generally used to correct minimal soft tissue defects. The free autogenous connective tissue graft has broad applicability in various soft tissue defects. The free autogenous gingival graft technique is often used for re-creation of attached keratinized mucosa in non-esthetic areas and in the situation of complex reconstruction of jaw bone. The timing and sequence of soft tissue management are important. Soft tissue augmentation could occur at any stage of implant treatment.

