
The jaw is the main bone support of the face, which includes the maxilla and mandible. It consists of both cortical bone and trabecular bone. Like long bones, the jaw is a connective tissue characterized by a mineralized extracellular matrix. All collagen molecules constitute about ${90}\%$ of the total weight of the bone matrix proteins. Only ${10}\%$ of bone matrix is noncollagenous proteins that constitute the ground substance of bone, but they are essential to bone development, growth, remodeling, and repair.

Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) consists of the condylar head of the mandible, the articular surfaces of the temporal bone, the articular disc and the articular capsule. Four distinct layers have been described covering the bony head of the condyle process: fibrous articular surface zone, cellular rich zone, fibrocartilaginous zone and zone of calcified cartilage. The articular disc is characterized by collagen fibers with a few fibroblasts. The central portion of the disc is very thin. The articulating surface of the glenoid fossa is also fibrous in nature. Synovial membrane and villi are found lining the capsule. The TMJ is well vascularized. A rich vascular plexus appears from the superficial temporal, anterior tympanic, and ascending pharyngeal arteries to terminate in the articular capsule. There are no blood vessels in the thin portion of the disc. Capillary networks are found in the capsular synovia and villi. The capillaries are adjacent to the synovial membrane, and their positions are important for the production of synovial fluid. Nerves originating from the auriculotemporal, masseteric, and deep temporal areas can be traced into the capsule, disc, and synovial villi. Nerve fibers end in the capsule as free nerve endings and encapsulated endings. There are no nerves in the central portion of the disc. Changes to the TMJ by aging include chondroid changes to the articular surface of the glenoid fossa and condyle as well as to that of the disc. In addition, there is thinning or absence of the cartilaginous degrees of osteoporosis of the bony portion of the condyle process, ramus of the mandible, and temporal bone.

