
Bullous diseases of oral mucosa are regarded as a kind of autoimmune disease, which represents a heterogeneous group of disorders of skin and mucosa including pemphigus, mucous membrane pemphigoid, paraneoplastic pemphigus, lichen planus pemphigoid and linear IgA disease. They may run a severe and potentially life-threatening course.

Bullous diseases of oral mucosa are commonly associated with IgG or IgA autoantibodies against distinct adhesion molecules, autoantigens of the skin and mucosa. The autoantibody induces the loss of adhesion between the epidermis and dermis that results in blister formation and extensive erosions. Autoantigen-autoantibody combination causes the autoimmune response and depending on the location of the autoantigens, either intraepidermal or subepidermal loss of adhesion will result, which often but not always explains the clinical findings.

Pemphigus is a disorder with an intraepidermal loss of adhesion and is characterized by fragile blisters and erosions. Pemphigus vulgaris often shows extensive lesions of the oral mucosa, while pemphigus foliaceus is commonly restricted to cutaneous layer. Paraneoplastic pemphigus is obligatorily associated with malignancies and often presents as pemphigus vulgaris. Pemphigoid diseases are associated with the disorder with an subepidermal loss of adhesion. The clinical spectrum of the mucous membrane pemphigoid and linear IgA disease are tense blisters.

The diagnosis of bullous diseases of oral mucosa should be combined with clinical manifestation, histological examination and immunofluorescence. Histological examination provides the orientation as well as the level of loss of adhesion and inflammatory infiltrate. Immunofluorescence microscopy has been established to identify tissue-bound and circulating autoantibodies. Direct immunofluorescence microscopy is considered as the gold standard in the diagnosis of bullous diseases of oral mucosa.

Evidence-based therapies associated with bullous diseases of oral mucosa are not available. General therapy measures include elimination of trigger factors, protection from cold and administration of sufficient calories and fluids. The avoidance of spicy and hot food is highly recommended and hard texture food should be replaced by soft or liquid meals. Initially, systemic corticosteroids are employed for therapy of bullous diseases of oral mucosa, which can be supplemented with other immunosuppressant agents, plasmapheresis, high-dose intravenous immunoglobulins, immunopheresis and extracorporeal photochemotherapy when needed. The mechanism is to suppress the production of autoantibodies and to remove circulating autoantibodies to control the disease activity. Corticosteroids are effective for rapid remission and ongoing control of symptoms of bullous diseases of oral mucosa. However, this may cause an increased risk of opportunistic infections. To avoid superinfections, antiseptic or antibiotic topical measures, perhaps even systemic prophylaxis is recommended. Systemic corticosteroids play a central role in the therapy of pemphigus vulgaris due to their rapid effects and as a result of the mortality rate decrease. The initial dose is usually equivalent to ${0.5} \sim  {1.5}\mathrm{{mg}}$ of prednisolone per kilograms daily. Systemic corticosteroids are usually combined with other immunosuppressive agents for rapid reduction of the corticosteroid dose. Adjuvant immunosuppressive agents include azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate as well as cyclosporine. As for paraneoplastic pemphigus, the prognosis depends primarily on the underlying malignancy. Therapy of mucous membrane pemphigoid is initially performed in combination with systemic corticosteroids and adjuvant immunosuppressive agents, followed by cyclophosphamide and dapsone.

