
Primary impressions are recorded to enable study casts to be produced. Study casts represent the exact contours of the oral surfaces of the edentulous jaw(s) and residual dentition. It is necessary to articulate the study casts to identify the important details that affect the design of the proposed prostheses. These help in assessing potential space for positioning implants and components, as well as recognizing any problems associated with the relationship of the jaws and the existing or future occlusion of the dental arches. The patient will also benefit from seeing planned evidence. For example, any shortcomings in the appearance of the final prosthesis or need for augmentation of the jaws are apparent, and less misunderstandings of proposed treatments and their predicted outcomes.

Diagnostic wax-up is essential in preoperative planning. They are often of considerable benefit when prepared during the surgical phase, or immediately after the completion of surgery, in order to secure optimum functional and aesthetic outcomes from implant treatment. Diagnostic try-in denture without vestibular flange is of primary importance. This approach will allow the visualization of the length of the clinical crowns of the future fixed implant prosthesis, and the evaluation of whether a fixed prosthesis will provide sufficient lip and facial support.

Impression procedures for dental implants usually make use of manufactured impression transfer copings. These are designed to fit on either the implant body, sometimes called fixture head copings, or the implant abutment, sometimes called abutment copings. The impression procedures associated with these are often referred to colloquially as fixture head impressions and abutment impressions.

It is an important step to make jaw registration, which made at the same vertical dimension and in a similar horizontal retruded position. This may be achieved using an base plate and wax rim which is appropriately extended and fits over the abutments.

The need for transitional protheses depends on the option of final restoration fabrication ( direct or indirect), the bone density, the soft tissue contours, and the location in the esthetic zones. The implant-supported transitional prostheses include implant-supported fixed and removable transitional prostheses.

