
Tooth defect is a common disease in dental clinic. The etiologies of tooth defect are caries, tooth trauma, abrasion, erosion, non-carious cervical lesion and developmental deformity. The prostheses of defected teeth can be categorized into inlay, laminate veneer, complete crown, partial veneer crown and post-and-core crown, etc. The ideal restoration for defected tooth must simultaneously fulfill the requirements of biologic, biomechanical, and esthetic principles. But often these principles conflict, one principle may be given too much emphases, and long-term success may be limited by a lack of consideration of other principles. The general clinical procedures for restoration of defected teeth consist of tooth preparation, impression and working cast trimming, restoration fabrication in dental lab, restoration try-in and final cementation.

Inlay is a fixed intracoranal restoration to rehabilitate the esthetics and function of defected teeth. Complete cast crown is often used to restore the posterior teeth. The strength of complete cast crown is superior to that of other restorations, and tooth reduction is less than tooth colored restoration. But esthetic factors may limit its application.

Porcelain-fused-to-metal crown, one of the most widely used fixed restorations, combines the esthetics of an all-ceramic crown with the strength of a cast complete crown. The underlying principle is to reinforce a brittle, more cosmetically pleasing porcelain material through the strength and support derived from the metal substructure. Natural appearance can be achieved by practiced manufacturing and good mastering of the characteristics of porcelains and its auxiliary materials.

All-ceramic crowns are some of the most esthetically pleasing fixed restorations and become more and more popular in dentistry. Because there is no metal coping to block the light transmission, they can, to a great extent, mimic natural tooth structure in terms of color and translucency. The main disadvantage of all-ceramic crown is their susceptibility to fracture, although this is reduced by application of the resin-boned technique and high strength all-ceramic materials.

Porcelain laminate veneering is a more conservative method of restoring the appearance and esthetics of the discolored, pitted, or fractured anterior teeth (premolars are usually indicated as well) through bonding thin ceramic laminates onto the labial surfaces of the affected teeth. The bonding procedure is very critical for its long term success. The main disadvantages of the method include the difficulty in obtaining restorations that are not excessively contoured and the relatively poor capability to block the heavily-discolored teeth.

Post-and-core crown is a restoration in which the post and core are one unit followed by placement of a separately fabricated crown for use in an endodontically-treated tooth with significant loss of tooth structure. When significant coronal tooth loss has occurred, a post-and-core crown is normally required or indicated. During the restoration, the ferrule effect is indispensable in preventing

