
全口义齿 (complete denture): A dental prosthesis that replaces all the natural dentition and associated structures of the maxillae or mandible. It may be supported solely by the mucosa or attached to implants in the alveolar process.

工作模型 (dental cast): A positive life size reproduction of a part or parts of the oral cavity.

蜡型 ( wax pattern ): A wax form that is the positive likeness of an object to be fabricated.

选牙 ( tooth selection ) : The selection of a tooth or teeth ( shape, size, color ) to harmonize with the individual characteristics of a patient.

排牙 ( tooth arrangement ): The placement of teeth on a denture or temporary base with definite objectives in mind.

装盒 (flasking): The act of investing a pattern in a flask. The process of investing the cast and a wax denture in a flask preparatory to molding the denture base material into the form of the denture.

𬌗型 ( occlusal pattern, occlusal scheme ): The form or design of the occluding surfaces of a tooth or teeth. These forms may be based on natural or modified anatomic or nonanatomic concepts of teeth.

冲蜡 (wax elimination): The procedure of removing the wax from a wax pattern invested in a mold preparatory to the introduction of another material into the resulting cavity. This may be done by dry heat alone or by irrigation with boiling water followed by use of dry heat. It's also called wax burnout.

平衡𬌗 (balanced occlusion): An occlusion of the teeth that presents a harmonious relation of the occluding surfaces in centric and eccentric positions within the functional range of mandibular positions and tooth size. The simultaneous contacting of the maxillary and mandibular teeth on both sides and in the anterior and posterior occlusal areas of the jaws. This occlusion is developed to prevent a tipping or rotating of the denture base in relation to the supporting structures. This term is used primarily in connection with the oral cavity, but it may be used in relation to teeth on an articulator.

𬌗平面 (occlusal plane): A plane passing through the occlusal or biting surfaces of the teeth. It represents the mean of the curvature of the occlusal surface.

调𬌗 (occlusal adjustment): The intentional mechanical grinding of selected biting surfaces of teeth to improve the contact of or relationship between opposing tooth surfaces, their supporting structures, the muscles of mastication, and the temporomandibular joints. In complete denture restoration, this process by selectively grinding the biting surface of artificial teeth will help to reach the balanced occlusion and improve the stability of the denture.

装胶 ( packing ): Filling and compressing a denture base material into a mold in a flask.

复制义齿 (duplicate denture): A second denture intended to be a copy of the first denture.

