
颌面修复学 (maxillofacial prosthetics): A branch of prosthodontics concerned with the restoration and/or replacement of the oral maxillofacial structures or organs with prostheses that may or may not be removed on a regular or elective basis.

先天性缺损 (congenital defect): Defect existing at, and usually before, birth; referring to the defect or abnormality that is present at birth, irrespective of their causation.

获得性缺损 (acquired defects): Defect existing after birth which refers to defect, loss or abnormality of tissue or organ that caused by traumatic accident, disease (tumor, inflammation), and so on.

阻塞器 (obturator, obturatorprosthesis): A maxillofacial prosthesis applied to close and cover the tissue opening or maintain the integrity of the oral and nasal compartments resulting from a congenital or development disease, or acquired situations like cancer, inflammation, trauma of the palate. An obturator prosthesis is classified as three types: immediate surgical, interim or definitive according to the intervention time period used in the maxillofacial rehabilitation for a patient. The prosthesis facilitates speech and deglutition by close or replacing lost tissues resulting from a disease or trauma and can as a result, reduce nasal regurgitation and hypernasal speech, improve deglutition, articulation, and mastication.

即刻外科阻塞器 (immediate surgical obturator): A temporary maxillofacial prosthesis inserted during or immediately following surgical or traumatic loss of a portion or all of one or both maxillae and contiguous alveolar structures. Frequent modifications of this prosthesis are indispensable during the ensuing healing phase. Further revisions of the surgical fields (e.g. enlargement) may require fabrication of a new one.

暂时性阻塞器 (interim obturator): A provisional maxillofacial prosthesis which is fabricated after completion of the initial healing following surgical resection of a portion or all of one or both maxillae. This prosthesis replaces the surgical obturator which is usually inserted immediately following the surgery. This prosthesis normally needs further revising during the subsequent treatment procedures and it can compensate for further tissue shrinkage before a definitive obturator is manufactured.

正式阻塞器 (definitive obturator): A definitive or long-term maxillofacial prosthesis which replaces part or all of the maxillae and associated teeth lost due to surgery or trauma (including the concurrent restoration of the lost teeth before a surgery or trauma). This prosthesis is usually made when it is deemed that further tissue changes or recurrence of the disease are unlikely to happen and a more permanent effects of prosthetic rehabilitation can be achieved.

下颌导 (mandibular guide plane prosthesis, mandibular resection prosthesis): A maxillofacial prosthesis applied to maintain a functional position or relationship between the maxillae and mandible, and improve speech and deglutition following surgery or trauma to the mandibles or/and adjacent structures.

