
A cyst is a pathological cavity containing fluid, semifluid or gaseous contents and is not created by the accumulation of pus. It is frequently, but not always, lined by epithelium. Common types of cysts include those resulting from congenital defects like branchial and thyroglossal cysts, those of neoplastic origin like cystadenomas and cystadenocarcinomas of ovary, those of parasitic origin, like hydatid cysts due to Echinococcus in liver, so called 'retention' cysts like epidermoid and pilar cysts of skin and those of traumatic 'implantation' origin.

The odontogenic cysts form a group of lesions which have in common an origin from the tissues of tooth formation. The majority of them occur within the jaw bones. Indeed odontogenic cysts represent the most common form of cystic lesions that affect the human skeleton. There are many different classifications of the odontogenic cysts over the years. However, almost without exception, all recognise two main groups, developmental and inflammatory. Thus, there is a general belief that different types of these lesions arise either from disturbances of normal tooth development and eruption or from acquired factors, of which the presence of foci of inflammation in the bones of the jaws and their overlying soft tissues is of the most importance. However, many developmental cysts contain infiltrates of inflammatory cells within their walls to a greater or lesser degree, thus perhaps making the distinction between the two categories of cyst less definite. Nevertheless, it is widely believed that the stimulus to the initial epithelial hyperplasia is different in the two groups and that the distinction is therefore valid. The most widely quoted classification of odontogenic cysts is that proposed in the WHO booklet, Histological Typing of Odontogenic Tumours, Jaw Cysts and Allied Lesions, first published in 1971 and then revised in 1992 and 2005、The most recent WHO classification on odontogenic lesions has been published in 2017.

It is thought that the epithelial lining of different odontogenic cysts is derived from odontogenic epithelial remnants formed at different stages of normal tooth development. The potential for further proliferation and differentiation of these epithelial remnants during formation of a cyst is different and thus leads to variations of their epithelial expression and biological behaviour. The three most common types of odontogenic cysts are thought to differ in the origin of their epithelial linings. The epithelium lining radicular cysts is thought to arise from proliferating root sheath residues (epithelial rests of Malassez), that of dentigerous cysts from reduced enamel epithelium and that of odontogenic keratocysts from the dental lamina or its remnants (glands of Serres).

