
牙尖交错位(Intercuspal position):The position of the mandible when the relationship of opposing occlusal surfaces provides for maximum planned contact and/or intercuspation. Because this is a tooth-determined position, sufficient teeth must be present for the mandible to be placed in this position ( acquired occlusion, habitual occlusion, convenience occlusion, centric occlusion ).

Maximal intercuspal position. The complete intercuspation of the opposing teeth independent of condylar position, sometimes referred to as the best fit of the teeth regardless of the condylar position - called also maximal intercusption.

正中关系 (Centric relation):

1. The maxillomandibular relationship in which the condyles articulate with the thinnest avascular portion of their respective disks with the complex in the anterior-superior position against the shapes of the articular eminencies. This position is independent of tooth contact. This position is clinically discernible when the mandible is directed superiorly and anteriorly. It is restricted to a purely rotary movement about the transverse horizontal axis.

2. The most retruded physiologic relation of the mandible to the maxillae to and from which the individual can make lateral movements. It is a condition that can exist at various degrees of jaw separation. It occurs around the terminal hinge axis.

3. The relation of the mandible to the maxillae when the condyles are in the uppermost and rearmost position in the glenoid fossae. This position may not be able to be recorded in the presence of dysfunction of the masticatory system.

4. A clinically determined position of the mandible placing both condyles into their anterior uppermost position. This can be determined in patients without pain or derangement in the TMJ ( Ramsfjord ).

后退接触位 ( Retruded contact position ) :

1. The position of the mandible determined when the mandible is in centric relation, and in which closure is made to initial occlusal contact.

2. That guided occlusal relationship occurring at the most retruded position of the condyles in the joint cavities. A position that may be more retruded than the centric relation position.

下颌姿势位(Mandibular postural position):

1. The "resting" position of the mandible when an individual is sitting or standing in an upright position, as determined by the muscles and other tissues that attach to the mandible ( rest position, "physiologic" rest position, postural position, clinical rest position). It should be noted that postural rest position is not a position of minimal muscle activity but requires a small amount of elevator muscle contraction to maintain the mandible in this position. Electromyographic (EMG) rest positions implies minimal muscle activity. The mandible is usually several millimeters more "open" in this position than in postural rest position.

2. The mandibular position assumed when the head is in an upright position and the involved muscles, particularly the elevator and depressor groups, are in equilibrium in tonic contraction, and the condyles are in a neutral, unstrained position.

3. The position assumed by the mandible when the attached muscles are in a state of tonic equilibrium. The position is usually noted when the head is held upright.

4. The postural position of the mandible when an individual is resting comfortably in an upright position and the associated muscles are in a state of minimal contractual activity.

息止𬌗间隙(Interocclusal distance):

1. The distance, commonly 2 to $4\mathrm{\;{mm}}$ , between the occluding surfaces of the maxillary and mandibular teeth when the mandible is in postural rest position; the difference between occlusal vertical dimension and rest vertical dimension ( freeway space, interocclusal gap or space ). Thus, assuming a relatively fixed postural rest position, any increase in occlusal vertical dimension would diminish the amount of interocclusal distance, and vice versa.

2. The distance between the occluding surfaces of the maxillary and mandibular teeth when the mandible is in a specified position.

休息垂直距离 ( Rest vertical dimension ) :

1. The vertical dimension of the face when the mandible is in postural rest position.

2. The distance between two selected points measured when the mandible is in the physiologic rest position.

𬌗垂直距离(Occlusal vertical dimension or vertical dimension of occlusion):

1. The vertical dimension of the face as determined by a midline vertical measurement of the face between two arbitrary points above and below the mouth when the mandible is in centric occlusion. By convention, when the term vertical dimension is used alone it is usually taken to mean occlusal vertical dimension ( vertical dimension of occlusion ) .

2. The distance measured between two points when the occluding members are in contact.

肌接触位 (Muscular contact position): The position of the mandible when it has been raised by voluntary muscular effort to initial occlusal contact with the head erect. In an asymptomatic individual the muscular contact position will ordinarily be consistent with the intercuspal position. One may demonstrate this consistency by noting the ability to accurately and repeatedly tap the teeth directly into the intercuspal position when the head is erect.

