
1. 局部麻醉 ( local anesthesia ): Local anesthesia involves the injection or application of an anesthetic drug to a specific area of the body to induce the absence of sensation, generally for the aim of inducing local analgesia, that is, local insensitivity to pain, although other local senses may be affected as well. It allows patients to undergo surgical and dental procedures with reduced pain and distress.

2. 镇静药物 ( sedative medication ): An agent that calms nervousness, irritability and excitement. In general, sedatives depress the central nervous system and tend to cause lassitude and reduced mental activity.

3. 表面麻醉法 (superficial anesthesia): superficial anesthesia is to use high penetrability of the anesthetic drugs, sticking, coating or spray directly on the mucosal surface, through the anesthetic drug absorption and make the nerve endings of anesthesia, achieves the pain disappear temporarily.

4. 浸润麻醉法 (infiltration anesthesia): An anesthesia induced by injecting the anesthetic solution directly into or around the tissues to be anesthetized.

5. 传导麻醉法 (block anesthesia): Anesthesia of an area supplied by a nerve; produced by an anesthetic agent applied to the nerve.

6. 儿童局部麻醉的并发症 (complications of local anesthesia in children): Complications of local anesthesia in children are the result of anesthesia drug on the local environment or the result of mechanism injection, mainly including anesthetic toxicity, trauma to soft tissue in children.

7. 阿狄森病 (Addison's disease): Addison's disease is a rare, chronic endocrine disorder in which the adrenal glands do not produce sufficient steroid hormones (glucocorticoids and often mineralocorticoids). It is characterized by a number of relatively nonspecific symptoms, such as abdominal pain and weakness, but under certain circumstances, these may progress to Addisonian crisis, a severe illness which may include very low blood pressure and coma.

8. 牙齿固连 (ankylosis of tooth): A mechanical lock or fusion between alveolar bone and root surface. The radiograph shows an interruption in the periodontal membrane of the ankylosed tooth, and often the dentin may appear to be continuous with alveolar bone.

(葛立宏 杨 杰)

