
Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disorder, histologically characterized by the presence of non-caseating granulomas. Spontaneous recovery occurs in parts of patients.

The cause of sarcoidosis remains unclear, although mounting evidence suggests a combination of environmental effects with a genetic predisposition. An infective trigger with some form of mycobacterium seems likely to be the prime suspect.

Sarcoidosis has a worldwide distribution. Sarcoidosis may occur at any age, though 68% of patients are under 40 years of age at time of diagnosis. Women are affected slightly more often than men.

Sarcoidosis can affect any organ in the body. The disease usually starts in the lungs, skin and/or lymph nodes. It also affects the eyes, liver, heart and brain as well as salivary glands. Sarcoidosis is difficult to diagnose. The diagnosis is established by performing a variety of tests, which may include medical history and physical exam, a tissue biopsy, blood tests and a chest X-ray, CT scan, MRI or other imaging tests.

No specific therapy is available. Treatment for sarcoidosis varies depending on which organs are affected. Those who do need treatment are given medicine to reduce inflammation and slow the growth of the granulomas. Treatment aims at maintaining good lung function, reducing symptoms and preventing organ damage. Corticosteroids are still the first-line of regimen for sarcoidosis.

Sjögren's syndrome is an inflammatory autoimmune disease that can affect many different parts of the body, but most often affects the lacrimal and salivary glands.

Primary Sjögren's syndrome occurs in people with no other rheumatologic disease. Secondary Sjögren's syndrome occurs in people who have another rheumatologic disease, most often systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis.

Most of the complications of Sjögren's syndrome occur because of decreased tears and saliva. Patients with dry eyes are at increased risk for infections around the eye and that may lead to cornea damage. Dry mouth may cause an increase in dental decay, gingivitis and oral candidiasis that may cause pain and burning. Some patients may have episodes of painful swelling in the saliva glands around the face.

Complications in other parts of the body can occur such as pain and stiffness in the joints with mild swelling and rashes on the arms and legs related to vasculitis in small blood vessels.

Diagnosis depends on a combination of symptoms, physical examination, blood tests, Sjögren's syndrome cannot be cured, but in many cases proper treatment helps to alleviate symptoms.

All patients should receive regular dental care to prevent cavities and tooth loss that may occur as a complication of SS. Patients with dry eyes should see an ophthalmologist regularly for signs of damage to the cornea.

Systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) is a chronic multi-systemic disease with unknown etiology that is characterized by the production of autoantibodies and immune complexes leading to systemic manifestations.

The clinical course of SLE is marked by periods of remission and exacerbation where ninety percent of those affected are young-to middle-aged women. The manifestations of SLE are varied, with no typical pattern of presentation. Small vessel vasculitis occurs as a result of the immune-complex deposition and leads to renal, cardiac, hematologic, mucocutaneous and central nervous system destruction.

In the treatment of SLE without major organ manifestations, antimalarials and/or glucocorticoids are of benefit and may be used. In non-responsive patients or patients not being able to reduce steroid dosages below the acceptable amount for chronic use, immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil and methotrexate should be considered. Lifestyle modifications such as smoking cessation, weight control and exercise are likely to be beneficial for patient and should be encouraged.

Rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ), is a chronic multisystem disease of autoimmune etiology. The prevalence of RA in China is ${0.32}\%  \sim  {0.42}\%$ . The classic characteristics of this disease are bilateral and symmetric chronic inflammation of the synovium, a condition known as synovitis. This inflammatory response particularly affects small joints of the upper and lower extremities, and often leads to the deterioration and eventual destruction of articular cartilage and juxta-articular bone. In addition, there are extro-articular manifestations.

The diagnosis of RA are based on the clinical manifestations, autoantibody detection and imaging examinations.

The objective of RA therapies is to restore or at least maintain the quality of life by relieving pain, reducing joint inflammation and preventing joint destruction and deformity. Successful management of this condition requires a multifaceted approach to treatment that include systemically administered drugs, physical therapy, psychological counseling, patient education and surgical intervention.

Oral health care providers need to recognize and identify modifications of dental care based on the medical status of patients with RA. Furthermore, oral health care providers play an important role in the overall care of these patients as it relates to early recognition, as well as control of the disease.

